About
#####
:date: 2011-12-19 12:22
:author: geogdog
:slug: about
:status: published

Hi, I'm Greg.

I'm a System Engineer, `DevOps <http://devopsdays.org/>`__Â evangelist,
husband and father to two lovely kids. My wife is my support system and
my kids are my inspiration.

Since accidentally slipping into Unix whilst working as a Technical
Support Engineer in a busy call centre, I've really got the decent
breaks that have led me to where I am today.

I was trained up with Solaris and was ready for a Unix career when the
call centre was decommissioned and all technical staff was made
redundant. Searching for a job as a Unix guy back then was hard when you
were 'junior' (meaning little or no experience - just theory) but I was
given a break and started working as a Unix admin at a car leasing
company. This is really where I got my feel for the command line, shell
programming and interacting with developers.

I fell in love with a Dutch girl and we made a deal to look for work in
our respective countries and whoever got work quickest would move. She
found me work first - so I moved to the Netherlands.

I became the first employee of a company that wanted to make thin-client
solutions for primary schools. I created a beast of a system
incorporating a desktop on Solaris that looked and felt exactly like
win98 but with only 3MiB of memory per idle desktop. The major problems
that I faced there were the applications all had to be in Dutch so a lot
of recompilation was needed of Firefox, Thunderbird, OpenOffice and
others. After struggling financially for a couple of years (I didn't get
paid much but the work was too interesting) and, after the birth of my
first child, I sadly decided to leave myself open to new opportunities.
This is where the next chapter begins.

I experienced the hyper-growth of a company. Meaning that I had to work
60-70 hours a week to keep up with maintaining current systems and
implementing new ones, whilst also setting up the tooling that we needed
like monitoring, etc. It was tough but extremely rewarding. Software
developers were being hired at a rate of 20/month but my team remained
only 4 guys. I got to learn very quickly and also learned how to channel
my adrenaline into quick thinking (usually why my hands shake during
public speaking and stress situations that don't require thinking).
After the growth slowed, and we had much more staff, I was getting the
big projects. Introducing a virtual landscape was probably the most
memorable. In the end the platform had 17TiB RAM, 1440 CPU cores and
1.2PiB of storage (in 2011).

Since then I've been involved with many projects including migrations
between datacenter providers, full operational environment setups
(monitoring, configuration management, etc) and advising on how to setup
CI/CD environments properly (It's a lot harder than some people reckon).

With all that said and done my love of shell programming turned into
`Python <http://python.org>`__ programming and most of my *helpers* are
now in Python. I also really enjoy programming applications (not
necessarily web apps) with `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`__.
